# Introduction

Coming into Hist3812 I was unsure what to expect. When I was told that the class would be exploring history through different mediums than most classes I was slightly concerned. I have never been overly keen to use technology despite the fact that I knew it could be a great tool to use. So far in this course I have learned how to use a few different applications such as Github, Obsidian, Mural, and Twine. I am not compleatly comfortable with all the applications we have used so far however I am learning.

Module 1 in this course was storytelling and during this module I have learned how storytelling can be integral to learning history. On of the first things I learned was that history and learning history should be fun. In the world of acedemics histroy has become boring. People studying ancient civilizations or great battles have dulled down these extremely interesting things into acedemic articles full of facts but deviod of any excitment. The problem of history becoming too serious is outlined by T. Mills Kelly a history proffesor who realized his class was disengaged in his historical methods class. Mills Kelly realized that by teaching his class a more fun approach to history they would become more engaged and in turn would get more out of the class and better understand the lessons Mills Kelly was trying to get across. Mills Kelly got his students to create and then spread a historical lie about the last American pirate. The response to the historical lie in acedemia was incredable as many acedemics in the feild of history were amazed with how much effort a student put into a history project, that was until they discovered that the project was one big fabrication. Mills Kelly's methods showed me that having more fun while studying history can make me a better historian.

Another thing I learned in this module was about narrative structures. Narrative structures are integral to how we percive a narrative or event and narrative structures are created to tell a story in a certian way. Narrative structures can be linear, an example of this would be many museum exhibits. Many exhibits in museums have a clear start and end point with only one path to take between these points. A linear narritive stucture is good for telling one specific narrative as people will absorb the information given to them in the order it was intended, the problem with this is that there is always multiple ways to look at history or a historical event meaning that presenting history linearly will limit what a person can learn. Narrative structures can also be non linear. Non linear narrative structures are good because they can be used to tell multiple narratives about a historical event. An example of a non linear narrative structre being used to tell history is the interactive game ghosts in the garden. Ghosts in the garden is a interactive game or adventure that takes place in a old pleasure garden in England, players of the game walk around the garden with a audio box and depending on what path the player takes they will hear different audio from the ghosts of dead people that once frequented the garden. The ghosts in ghosts of the garden were never real people, however by playing the game players will get an understanding of what life was like in Georgian era England. The non linear structure of the game allows each player to get a unique story from their experince as well be able to replay the game and get a different experience each time. Learning about narrative structures has shown me that while I might be used to learning history through linear narrative structures, non linear structures are important for getting people engaged and excited about history and can also teach people to see a historical event from multiple perspectives   

# Win

During module 1 there are mant things I have accomplished that I would consider a win. Github is a tool which I have never used before, learning how to create repositories and use markdown has definitly been a win for me. There is definitly lots of things you can do with github so hopefully I can explore it more and gain a better understanding of it. I have also enjoyed using Obsidian so far. Outside of this class I have been using Obsidian to take notes in some of my other courses, I find it super easy and convinent to use and feel like by using it I have the ability to access all of my notes in one spot. I have not taken adavntage of the many features of Obsidian such as graph mode but hopefully as I use it more I will learn how to use more of its features. Learning how to use applications such as Twine and Mural have also been a win for me, I always thought making games and websites was only for people very adapt with technology however by exerimenting with these applications I have found that it is actually pretty easy. This course has taught me that if you take it slow technology is less intimidating than most people make it out to seem.

# Fail

I have had a few fails during module 1. First off I have not logged things a well as I should have. Often when I would learn something in class I would understand it, however when coming back to it later I would forget what I had learned. Even things as simple as creating Github repositories would be challenging for me when I did not put the steps into a log. In the future I plan on creating a log for all applications I use in the class, this will make understanding things much easier when I come back to them later. I have realised that I must keep a log on even the most simple things when using technology at least until I am better versed with technology or this class will be a struggle for me. Another fail for me in this module has been my collaberation. If I want to succeed in this class I will need to collaberate better, I have gotten to know some of my classmates however if I want to maximize what I get out of this class I will have to discuss ideas about my unessay with others as well as ask others for help when I have an issue with something. I think sometimes I feel self conscious about my ideas or am worried about coming across as dumb so I sometimes avoid discussing things with others however I know I will need to overcome this to do well in this class.     
